How to update my GitHub repositrory:
My Repository is:
https://github.com/sibernewf/ukulele-songbook.git
My Live site is:
https://sibernewf.github.io/ukulele-songbook/

Updating Ukulele Songbook on GitHub
Part 1 — One-time setup on your computer
Only do this section once for the project folder.

1. Make sure Git is installed
Open the Windows Start menu and type:

   cmd

Open Command Prompt, then enter:

   git --version

You should see something similar to:

   git version 2.5x.x.windows.x

If Windows says that git is not recognised, Git must be installed before continuing.
GitHub’s command-line instructions require Git to be installed and configured locally.

2. Open the project folder in Windows Explorer
Navigate to the folder containing the actual website files.

You should be looking at files and folders such as:
 - index.html
 - css
 - js
 - songs
 - images

The correct folder is the one where index.html is directly visible.
Do not open a parent folder that merely contains another folder holding the website.

3. Open Command Prompt directly in that folder
The easiest Windows method is:
 - Click the address bar at the top of File Explorer.
 - Delete the existing folder path.
 - Type:
       cmd
 - Press Enter.
   A Command Prompt window will open with the project folder already selected.

For example:
  C:\Users\Alan\Documents\ukulele-songbook>

You can confirm the folder contents by entering:
  dir

You should see index.html in the list.

4. Initialise the folder as a Git repository
Enter:
  git init

This adds Git tracking information to the folder. It does not alter your website files.

5. Tell Git to use the main branch
Enter:
  git branch -M main

6. Connect the local folder to your GitHub repository
Enter:
  git remote add origin https://github.com/sibernewf/ukulele-songbook.git

Check that it was added correctly:
  git remote -v

You should see:
  origin  https://github.com/sibernewf/ukulele-songbook.git (fetch)
  origin  https://github.com/sibernewf/ukulele-songbook.git (push)

Important: your repository already contains files
Because you initially uploaded your website through the GitHub webpage, GitHub already has a commit that your local folder does not know about.
Before pushing from the local folder for the first time, retrieve that history:
  git pull origin main --allow-unrelated-histories

Git may open an editor asking you to confirm a merge message.
If that happens in a black Vim-style screen:
 - Press Esc.
 - Type:
   :wq
 - Press Enter.

There may also be conflicts if your local files differ from the files already uploaded. The safest first-time approach is to make sure your local folder contains the exact version you intend to keep before proceeding.

Part 2 — Normal update procedure

Use this section every time you update songs, JavaScript, CSS, HTML, images, or anything else.

1. Make your changes locally
For example:
  songs/big-rock-candy-mountain.txt
  js/song-list.js
  index.html
  css/styles.css

Test the app locally before uploading it.

2. Open Command Prompt in the project folder
In File Explorer:
 - Open the folder containing index.html.
 - Click the address bar.
 - Type:
     cmd
 - Press Enter.

3. Download any changes already on GitHub
This is a good habit, especially if you sometimes edit files directly through the GitHub website:

  git pull origin main

This helps prevent overwriting changes that exist online but not locally. GitHub documents git pull and cloning as methods for bringing remote changes onto your computer.
If you are certain nobody has edited the GitHub copy, this command may simply report:
  Already up to date.

4. Check what has changed
Enter:

  git status

You may see something like:
  modified:   js/song-list.js
  modified:   songs/let-it-snow.txt
  untracked files:
    songs/new-song.txt

This step is useful because it shows exactly what Git intends to work with.

5. Add the changed files
To add every changed, new, and deleted file in the project:

  git add .

The full stop means:
  Add all changes beneath the current folder.

GitHub’s documented command-line workflow uses git add before creating a commit.
Check again:

  git status

The files should now appear under:

  Changes to be committed

6. Commit the update
Create a short description of what changed:

  git commit -m "Add new songs and strumming patterns"

Other examples:
  git commit -m "Update song tags"
  git commit -m "Add guitar instrument support"
  git commit -m "Release version 6.2.2"

A commit records a labelled snapshot of your changes.

7. Push the update to GitHub
Enter:

  git push origin main

GitHub documents git push as the command used to send local commits to the remote repository.
You may be asked to sign in to GitHub the first time. Windows may open a browser window or use Git Credential Manager.

Once complete, you should see output similar to:
  Enumerating objects...
  Writing objects...
  To https://github.com/sibernewf/ukulele-songbook.git
     abc1234..def5678  main -> main

8. Wait for GitHub Pages to update

GitHub Pages builds automatically when changes are pushed to the configured publishing branch and folder.

Usually allow approximately one or two minutes, then visit:

https://sibernewf.github.io/ukulele-songbook/

Refresh the page with:

Ctrl + F5

That forces the browser to reload the files instead of showing an older cached copy.

The everyday four-command version

Once the initial setup has been completed, most updates are simply:

git pull origin main
git add .
git commit -m "Describe the update"
git push origin main

That is the main procedure worth printing or keeping beside the project.

Recommended safer version

This version includes checks before committing:

git pull origin main
git status
git add .
git status
git commit -m "Describe the update"
git push origin main
Example: adding a new song

Suppose you add:

songs/ukulele/waltzing-matilda.txt

and update:

js/song-list.js

Your commands would be:

git pull origin main
git status
git add .
git commit -m "Add Waltzing Matilda"
git push origin main

Then wait briefly and refresh the live site.

Common messages and what they mean
Already up to date.

Nothing newer exists on GitHub. This is normal.

nothing to commit, working tree clean

Git cannot find any local changes. Either nothing was changed, the wrong folder is open, or the files were already committed.

fatal: not a git repository

The Command Prompt is open in the wrong folder, or git init has not been completed there.

Check the folder with:

cd
dir
remote origin already exists

The repository connection has already been configured. Do not add it again.

Check it with:

git remote -v
rejected ... fetch first

GitHub contains changes that are not present locally.

Run:

git pull origin main

Resolve any reported conflict, then commit and push again.

The website still shows the old version

Try:

Ctrl + F5

Also check the repository’s Actions tab for a Pages deployment that is still running or has failed.

Very important operating rule

From now on, treat your local project folder as the main working copy:

Edit locally.
Test locally.
Commit locally.
Push to GitHub.
Let GitHub Pages publish it.

Avoid editing the same files directly on GitHub unless necessary, because doing both local and online edits can create merge conflicts.

Printable quick reference:
UPDATE ALAN’S UKULELE SONGBOOK

1. Open the project folder containing index.html.
2. Click the File Explorer address bar.
3. Type cmd and press Enter.
4. Run:

   git pull origin main
   git status
   git add .
   git commit -m "Describe the update"
   git push origin main

5. Wait one or two minutes.
6. Open:
   https://sibernewf.github.io/ukulele-songbook/
7. Press Ctrl + F5 to force a refresh.



